Public Technical Oversight Committee (TOC) Meeting: OJGS-9796 - events@cncf.io - Friday, November 20, 2020 3:11 PM - 36 minutes

Participant: wordly [W] English (US)

Transcription for wordly [W]

00:00:00 [W] Looks like we're live.
00:00:01 [W] How's it going everyone?
00:00:05 [W] Okay. Good.
00:00:07 [W] Good.
00:00:07 [W] Alright got this Hollywood Squares thing feels good, you know at the end of the conference, which is calling.
00:00:15 [W] Thank you everyone for attending this is C panel basically to you know, and the conference, you know, make sure that the TOC is approachable and everyone is kind of ask questions and you know things you can kind of learn about what's being planned for the next year.
00:00:28 [W] So kind of kick things off.
00:00:29 [W] I'll introduce you know myself. My name is Chris an Izakaya the fun job of serving the technical community.
00:00:34 [W] 80 in cncf, you know, we have currently 10 Toc members, you know that will go throughout introduce themselves.
00:00:43 [W] I will call each of you out individually to kind of say hi and talk a little bit about your job and roll. So to start things off. I'll just go in order from what I could see so we'll start with Elena.
00:00:58 [W] Hello everyone.
00:00:59 [W] My name is Alina procure chick.
00:01:00 [W] I'm I work for Apple there.
00:01:02 [W] I help different engineering steam to on board the cloud native infrastructure always excited to learn about the new use cases and we soon from the platform and happy to be here.
00:01:12 [W] Thank you. Chris Thanks, Elena fun Keynotes earlier in the conference. Next up for me is Dave.
00:01:20 [W] Our adoption of kubernative isn't grpc and Envoy work around the perimeter and things like that.
00:00:57 [W] I think the newest Toc member on this board some still kind of figuring out what I do here and how to do it, but happy to be here.
00:01:07 [W] Thank you. Dave very much. Next up for me is our Toc cherrylle is the dress.
00:01:16 [W] Hi. Yes. I thanks Chris.
00:01:18 [W] I'm Liz rice.
00:01:20 [W] I look after the open source engineering team at a crow security and yeah, I'm chair of the TOC and Dave.
00:01:28 [W] Don't worry.
00:01:28 [W] We're all figuring out what we're doing as we go along.
00:01:34 [W] Constantly iterate the way works.
00:01:36 [W] Next up is Michelle.
00:01:39 [W] Hey, everyone can hear me?
00:01:41 [W] Okay loud and clear. Awesome.
00:01:45 [W] I'm Michelle. Noorali.
00:01:46 [W] I am a software engineer here at Microsoft Azure.
00:01:50 [W] I work on open source tools in the cloud native ecosystem focusing on making containers and kubernative easier to use. I am currently a core maintainer on the servicemeshcon.
00:02:01 [W] Interface project and the open servicemeshcon jecht and previously I've worked on several other tools in the cloud knative space. I'm outside Emeritus maintainer on the helm project.
00:02:14 [W] happy to be here awesome off the projects there next up is sod
00:02:20 [W] Right.
00:02:18 [W] Thanks Chris.
00:02:19 [W] My name is Syed Ali.
00:02:19 [W] I'm a software engineer at Google and my background has mostly been around storage for kubernative sand the CSI project and I'm very excited to be a part of the TOC and see what I can do to help other projects as well.
00:02:36 [W] Thank you, Sade. Brendan Burns is up next.
00:02:42 [W] All right.
00:02:43 [W] I fiddled with my sound setting so hopefully it's not quite so loud.
00:02:46 [W] Hi, I'm Brendan Burns.
00:02:48 [W] I work and Microsoft Azure for a bunch of computing cloud knative services on edger as well as our Upstream open source work.
00:02:58 [W] Muslim thank you, Brandon. You don't sound like a lawn mowers going in the background.
00:03:02 [W] So progress has been made.
00:03:03 [W] I think I was on my like built-in laptop. My cannot my foot. So apologies for is all good.
00:03:11 [W] good. All good. Next up is Justin cormack.
00:03:15 [W] Hi, I'm Justin komak. I'm an engineer at darker.
00:03:18 [W] I'm maintainer of notary and I'm the maintainer elected representative on the TOC. I'm also very involved with six security and work on lots of security related stuff.
00:03:31 [W] Awesome.
00:03:32 [W] Thank you Justin.
00:03:34 [W] Matt Klein up next. Hey everyone. I'm Matt Klein.
00:03:38 [W] I'm a software engineer at lift.
00:03:40 [W] In laptop, my cannot my headset. So apologies.
00:03:33 [W] Yeah worries. All good.
00:03:35 [W] All good. Next up is Justin cormack?
00:03:39 [W] Hi, I'm Justin komak. I'm an engineer at darker.
00:03:42 [W] I'm maintainer of notary and I'm the maintainer elected representative on the TOC. I'm also very involved with six security and work on lots of security related stuff.
00:03:55 [W] Welcome.
00:03:56 [W] Thank you. Justin.
00:03:58 [W] Matt climb up next.
00:04:00 [W] Hey everyone.
00:04:01 [W] I'm Matt Klein.
00:04:03 [W] I'm a software engineer at lift.
00:04:05 [W] I spend about 50% of my time on infrastructure leadership at lift.
00:04:09 [W] And then I spend the other 50% of my time working on cncf Envoy and all of the other fun stuff.
00:04:16 [W] Nice to be here.
00:04:19 [W] Thank you.
00:04:19 [W] Thank you. We do man and then Jen hi, I'm Cindy out co-founder and CEO of Rancher labs, and we think as
00:04:30 [W] Rancher Labs, we we contributed a couple of sandbox projects to cncf so far Longhorn and k3s and we look forward to doing more with you know with cncf.
00:04:46 [W] Not them.
00:04:47 [W] Thank you cheering. I don't think Zhang from Ali is here.
00:04:51 [W] Unless I'm wrong.
00:04:52 [W] I don't see him in my magical Hollywood Squares.
00:04:54 [W] So, you know, we'll continue.
00:04:57 [W] You know, I'm going to share my screen in a second here to kind of go over our presentation. But generally we have eleven Toc members currently the to see is down to 10 because
00:05:12 [W] Them.
00:05:12 [W] Thank you cheering. I don't think Zhang from Ali is here.
00:05:16 [W] Unless I'm wrong.
00:05:16 [W] I don't see him in my magical Hollywood Squares.
00:05:19 [W] So, you know, we'll continue on you know, I'm going to share my screen in a second here to kind of go over our presentation. But generally we have eleven Toc members currently the to see
00:05:34 [W] Times when you find an amazing person the higher you hire them and we you know ended up hiring KTM Angie who used to serve as the end user representative for the to see so we are down to ten when you go to share
00:05:49 [W] Representative for the to see so we are down to ten when you go to share my screen see if this actually works cool.
00:06:00 [W] All right.
00:06:03 [W] All good.
00:06:04 [W] Hopefully this works.
00:06:05 [W] So here is you know, Wonderful Toc like I mentioned we have ten, you know, we usually have eleven when we have a full house, you know, representing, you know end-users GB appointed
00:06:20 [W] It is and maintain or appointed Representatives a good kind of cross section of the different communities. We serve, you know, one thing that you know, I constantly highlight that a lot of people new to cncf trilio understand
00:06:35 [W] Today we have come up with a set of guiding principles that the TOC has produced that we publish on GitHub and we kind of you know evaluates been a while since we've done an update.
00:06:45 [W] We're probably overdo to kind of take a second look at it.
00:06:47 [W] But if you kind of go through some of these principles, you know, we're always about putting projects, you know, first, you know projects are independent and self-governing the foundation doesn't really metal with projects along with TC members.
00:06:59 [W] They're really there to advise and guide which only can looking for em, you know high-quality learning projects.
00:07:05 [W] It's you know, kind of a rule around kingmakers. If you solve from you know, Liz has wonderful keynote just earlier kind of highlighted that point around no King makers and you know one size does not fit all you know, even though we host things
00:07:20 [W] Well one projects, you know, we kind of a rule around kingmakers if you solve from you know, Liz has wonderful keynote just earlier kind of highlighted that point around no King makers and you know one size does not fit all
00:07:46 [W] You know things like cni-genie.
00:08:16 [W] At least probably a couple dozen people like we want to think of bringing our projects to the you know cncf how does it work. You know, good news is this year? We've documented a lot of improvements when it comes to processes. So if you
00:08:31 [W] Actually our project proposals doc.
00:08:32 [W] You'll find a lot of that information there.
00:08:35 [W] that's generally feel fairly straightforward. We've made a lot of improvements around the sandbox process.
00:08:40 [W] So it's a lot easier now to you know, proposed projects and for the TOC to kind of deal with the inbound requests on the bright side, you can kind of see all the existing proposals.
00:08:51 [W] So if you're kind of new to this, please kind of, you know, look at the existing proposals out there and kind of get ideas and maybe attend one of the public Toc meetings that happen every couple weeks.
00:09:00 [W] It's or just jump on slack.
00:09:02 [W] We're super friendly and happy to answer any questions that you have, you know, as we're kind of wrapping up this year, you know, some of us on the staff side.
00:09:11 [W] We've been working on an internal report or essentially the a lot of data that feeds into our annual report that will publish in January. But one thing that kind of shocked me this year is that we actually accepted 35 projects than you know, super majority of them be can send
00:09:26 [W] History, it's by far the most we've ever accepted, you know in a year in cncf at all, which is a little bit little bit while done, you know, we went through the expansion of upping the TOC from you know, loving people total and got that fully staffed out.
00:09:30 [W] Here, which is an awesome.
00:09:25 [W] We improve the end-user representation, which is can great.
00:09:28 [W] We added two new cigs this year around servile tea and also contributor strategy which has been great and kind of formalizing a lot of ideas to help projects get started and just being great advisors outside of just the staff that usually handles the the brunt of that
00:09:43 [W] I mentioned before we simplify the sandbox projects which you know beginning. I think I had some hesitations there. But generally it's definitely improved the acceleration which we've accepted projects. I think that's been a positive thing overall and
00:09:57 [W] We also you know graduated five projects.
00:09:58 [W] So Helm Harbor tikv rook and for some of these were giving a bit of a preview for next week, but at CD will will graduate next next Monday or Tuesday. I believe so be great to kind of end the year with five projects hitting that and then that level
00:10:13 [W] Mind folks on you know, the TOC is really staffed with community members folks that kind of represent, you know the community whether their project maintainers ambassadors and so on nominations for essentially six slots will be opening up
00:10:27 [W] We'll have six slots and they'll represent different, you know, kind of areas and designates. Lots of the TOC has so two of them will be end-user appointed.
00:10:37 [W] So this from our user community that Cheryl hung runs they'll be working to point those three of them will come to the governing board and one will be from the TOC itself gets to appoint them.
00:10:48 [W] So we'll go through this whole process and will be super public about it. We remind everyone so just pay attention and if you're interested in running feel
00:10:55 [W] Free to reach out to me or any other Toc members and they could kind of talk about the you know time commitments Pros cons and all that wonderful stuff that happens with roll Not Really Gonna dive in the prediction since Liz had a wonderful keynote on this.
00:11:08 [W] I think we're going to you know, kind of move back to Hollywood Squares and essentially start asking, you know, the TOC you some questions and so on. So, let me go stop sharing my
00:11:20 [W] Greetings here. So let's see if we could go back to Hollywood Squares node, Austin kind of see everyone here for the most part.
00:11:29 [W] So before I kind of kick off our questions out there, you know, I'd love to kind of see if you know Liz made all these kind of wonderful predictions, you know around communities on the edge webassembly bof.
00:11:44 [W] Thing that you know, she potentially mr.
00:11:46 [W] Glossed over that anyone wants to kind of, you know, bring up, you know bring up here any kind of thoughts on where we're going to, you know, go next year in terms of predictions.
00:11:56 [W] Anyone want to jump in and take this go ahead Brandon.
00:12:00 [W] So I mean I say this every year I guess but I think broadening the developer based in the cloud native ecosystem is critical. I think it's just too hard to buildpacks.
00:12:12 [W] Build applications and we focused a lot of energy on operating applications and that's great.
00:12:18 [W] But like if we don't make it easier for people to build these applications.
00:12:22 [W] I don't think we're doing anybody a service.
00:12:24 [W] So I'm you know excited about bringing things like no code to kubernative and other kinds of, you know developer productivity that we can focus on so, I'm hopeful I every year I say we're going to do this and we make some progress but I'll keep saying it
00:12:39 [W] That's awesome.
00:12:32 [W] Definitely.
00:12:33 [W] I don't know if you saw there was some crazy person who hooked like Google Sheets to monitoring like an editing a Humanities cluster.
00:12:41 [W] Hopefully, we'll see some innovation in the space to make it easier for everyone anyone.
00:12:45 [W] I'm not sure to monitoring via sheet system.
00:12:48 [W] I was thinking more Quake. I like the quick.
00:12:52 [W] I like monitor.
00:12:53 [W] Okay?
00:12:54 [W] Yeah anyone else want to take this?
00:13:00 [W] Any other predictions for next year if we're going to dive into our normal panel tool is miss anything.
00:13:09 [W] I've got something I think extensibility is something that we've been driving a lot on in this community and I expect that's going to continue. I think a lot of the standards that have emerged like CSI have become well established and have
00:13:24 [W] Kind of a plethora of companies to solutions to be able to integrate together with the ecosystem.
00:13:16 [W] And so I expect that those extensibility points are going to continue to expand.
00:13:22 [W] Awesome.
00:13:23 [W] Do you have any particular areas?
00:13:25 [W] You think that will last object storage was an interesting one where you know data path has not really been standardized and we don't really have a good way to be able to plug in an arbitrary object storage. Now the kubernative folks are
00:13:40 [W] Check storage was an interesting one where you know data path has not really been standardized and we don't really have a good way to be able to plug in an arbitrary object storage. Now the kubernative folks are starting to look at a
00:13:59 [W] Cod container object storage interface and what would that look like is it you know going to be as extensible as CSI has been in terms of being able to plug in an arbitrary object storage system
00:14:15 [W] An arbitrary workloads on kubernetes on any environment.
00:14:18 [W] Can we get to that point?
00:14:19 [W] And so that's an interesting and exciting kind of Frontier that's being explored.
00:14:25 [W] Awesome.
00:14:26 [W] Awesome.
00:14:26 [W] Awesome.
00:14:27 [W] Awesome. All right.
00:14:28 [W] I will move on to our set of questions that I'll go check, you know in slack to see if anyone has anything in particular but to kind of kick off our kind of first, you know question, you know, I'll start with essentially
00:14:44 [W] Mesh no space so, you know cncf as a handful of projects in the servicemeshcon system, you know Kuma SMI linkerd e Envoy, even though Matt's feet completely keeps yelling at me that Envoy is not a servicemeshcon
00:14:55 [W] Up.
00:14:52 [W] What do you think? You know, what do you predict kind of happening, you know in this space there seems to be a lot of proaches.
00:14:57 [W] There's a spec now.
00:15:00 [W] know, what do you kind of see happening and in the servicemeshcon?
00:15:22 [W] People ask me this all the time and I'm going to be honest.
00:15:24 [W] I don't know what the answer is and I think I don't know what the answer is because servicemeshcon not a very mature space right now.
00:15:33 [W] There's lots of different solutions.
00:15:34 [W] I'm personally obviously very biased.
00:15:37 [W] I think the data plane is converging on Envoy, but I just think we're seeing a proliferation of components out there and the control plane space and I always step back to what are the
00:15:52 [W] That people are trying to solve and I think this comes back to what Brendan was actually saying, which is that we're building a lot of infrastructure, but it's still too hard to write applications and from the end user perspective.
00:16:01 [W] They don't actually care how load balancing and retries and all of these things are implemented.
00:16:09 [W] How we how we deploy applications how we connect to various systems like apis and pops up etcetera.
00:16:15 [W] And I just don't I don't actually for see a future in which we're going to keep going down this independent servicemeshcon.
00:16:38 [W] I actually personally very skeptical that we're going to continue to see a bunch of these independent projects. I think over time we're going to see some of them go away.
00:16:46 [W] Some of them are going to get merged into larger larger projects and systems.
00:16:52 [W] So this is there no. Hope for Envoy to be re-written in Rust over the next couple of yards.
00:16:58 [W] Wow. You're just you're just trying to get a rise out of me dying this event.
00:17:03 [W] Not a hard time.
00:17:08 [W] Do you actually want me to answer that?
00:17:13 [W] Absolutely. Why not?
00:17:15 [W] I think that over time we will I'm not a I'm not a big believer.
00:17:21 [W] Ver and complete rewrite Envoy has hundreds of thousands of lines of code and with millions of lines of dependencies, so I don't think it's realistic to do a complete rewrite.
00:17:32 [W] To be re-written in Rust over the next couple of the United States.
00:17:36 [W] Wow, you're just you're just trying to get a rise out of me during this event.
00:17:40 [W] Not a hard time.
00:17:45 [W] Do you actually want me to answer that?
00:17:50 [W] Absolutely.
00:17:52 [W] Why not?
00:17:52 [W] Absolutely.
00:17:53 [W] I think that over time we will I'm not a I'm not a big believer in a complete rewrite Envoy has hundreds of
00:18:01 [W] of thousands of lines of code and with millions of lines of dependencies, so I don't think it's realistic to do a complete rewrite.
00:18:09 [W] I do think that over time via things like webassembly and embedding rust and I think we will see Envoy, you know start to use those types of systems, but no, I don't think we'll ever do a complete rewrite.
00:18:21 [W] Yeah, so probably that looks more more webassembly.
00:18:26 [W] Yeah, I think less less Loom or more webassembly itrenew.
00:18:32 [W] I think we will end up using R Us with an Envoy I think over time it'll be a mix of C++ and rust but you know, that's that's something that's going to evolve over the next couple of years.
00:18:41 [W] I mean, there's hundreds of millions and billions of lines of C++.
00:18:45 [W] So, I think there's a general problem out there that we're not going to rewrite the world and we have to figure out how to gradually migrate to say for systems simply doing just fine.
00:18:55 [W] Yeah. We are saying more rust in the cloud hosting space, which is exciting. We've at the security spire.
00:19:01 [W] Case has really adopted raston.
00:19:05 [W] We're seeing I'm things I parsec in the sandbox and there's a lot of interest in Rust there and and you know, we you know, so with there's a bunch of rust projects and there's a bunch of interest in Rust and I think there's a lot of other thing was
00:19:20 [W] Actually migrate to say for systems simply doing just fine.
00:19:24 [W] Yeah, we are saying more rust in the cloud hosting space which is exciting we've at the security space has already adopted raster. We're seeing I'm things like parsec in the sandbox, and there's a lot of interest in Rust there
00:19:45 [W] Because a lot of people, you know, I talked to in the space or adopting it but these projects so I think it's there's a lot of promise there.
00:19:53 [W] Yeah. Definitely. I see more popping up more and more but you know, very very little and let's say production as far as I'm concerned anyone else on the topic of rust while we're while we're there before I dive into another question.
00:20:08 [W] And as far as I'm concerned anyone else on the topic of rust while we're while we're there before I dive into another question.
00:20:19 [W] No, but on the topic of servicemeshcon.
00:20:30 [W] you just
00:20:34 [W] he lost Michelle. Are you lost or shells audio?
00:20:38 [W] He was going to make systems like Salient point less amazing point about servicemeshcon.
00:20:52 [W] Michelle's was going to be I know I was so so thrilled God did I will try to give us 50 percent of Michelle's awesomeness of I think for us the bigger thing is
00:21:03 [W] Something kind of the point that that was making more I think about Envoy that for us talking about servicemeshcon really hard because kind of most of the companies that care they just want some feature of servicemeshcon.
00:21:34 [W] Some other interesting routing pattern that we can get from a servicemeshcon.
00:21:43 [W] Thing kind of the point that that was making more I think about Envoy that for us talking about servicemeshcon really hard because kind of most of the companies that care they just want some feature of servicemeshcon for us.
00:21:53 [W] been really hard to go around the company and talk about like, oh, I don't know insert servicemeshcon ology here. Do we care and very few people across the company building features care, what they care about is that they get retries our fault tolerance or
00:22:09 [W] some other interesting routing pattern that we can get from a servicemeshcon.
00:22:22 [W] All right, so I think Michelle maybe back on so maybe you can follow up.
00:22:30 [W] Can you hear me?
00:22:31 [W] Okay. Yeah, absolutely.
00:22:33 [W] You're bad. Let's hope this works.
00:22:36 [W] So yeah Sig networking has been working on conformance sweet for SMI.
00:22:42 [W] And that's a really exciting thing because whenever conformance comes around and people work on it that means you know, multiple people are trying to implement one thing and kind of converging in a space and I think in the servicemeshcon is like I mean
00:22:57 [W] Your map let's hope this works.
00:22:59 [W] So yeah Sig not working as been working on conformance sweet for SMI, and that's a really exciting thing because whenever conformance comes around and people work on it.
00:23:12 [W] that means you know, multiple people are trying to implement one thing and kind of converging in a space and I think in the servicemeshcon is like I mean, like everybody else has echoed like it's really about the feature set not really about the actual implementation and so
00:23:27 [W] and in the greater Cloud native Community, we've just been building these modular interoperable components kind of working or higher level like top we were you know,
00:23:42 [W] now to eventually end up building a really good experience for end users and eventually getting to that point where they can just be like, hey, like I just want retries and fault tolerance and
00:23:57 [W] easy and seamless a be experience like I think since 2015 people have been asking like how do I do A/B Testing in Cloud native or kubernative is environments how do I do Canary diplomas so once we get to a point where people are like
00:24:07 [W] the I think that'll be a success and I hope we get closer to that in the next year and see more tools being built and coming out of cloud native Computing Foundation that are really at that higher level and focusing
00:24:21 [W] rather than the details
00:24:23 [W] awesome.
00:24:23 [W] Awesome.
00:24:24 [W] Thank you.
00:24:24 [W] Thank you Michelle. I looks like we finally have some great audience participation hear from someone throw this to the audience also happy to answer it our early stage projects built by individuals likely to be accepted in the sandbox, or is it more about
00:24:39 [W] project maturity number contributors feature set stability and so on anyone want to take a
00:24:43 [W] you can see that I can I get tired of it. Let's go see if we say something similar.
00:24:50 [W] Yeah, so the cncf offers this neutral ground for collaboration, and we do want to be a good place for people to come together and build great projects.
00:25:03 [W] It's not necessarily going to make sense to have one person come along with an idea. You know, there is a cost associated with you know, the
00:25:13 [W] Work to host every project so I would say that when we see people from different organizations wanting to come together.
00:25:20 [W] It's nearly always going to be a no-brainer that if it's Cloud native and there are multiple organizations.
00:25:27 [W] It makes sense for them to have a neutral place to do that work. And if they don't have that neutral place, they can't do that work in many cases.
00:25:38 [W] Whereas for an individual there isn't really a blocker preventing them from going on with their project and building up.
00:25:43 [W] a bit of traction and making sure that it's you know, something that is going to suit the community somehow by almost by definition having multiple organizations collaborating that makes it more likely to
00:25:58 [W] He relevant project I would say.
00:26:01 [W] Brandon was at anything like what you were going to say.
00:26:03 [W] Yeah, I think there was basically what I was going to say as well, which is that, you know, we're not get Hub right?
00:26:09 [W] We're not a project Hoster and where what we are about is facilitating collaboration.
00:26:17 [W] And so, you know, I think that you know while we have projects that are sort of led by single companies they tend to that.
00:26:31 [W] Project that's led by a single company tends to have a higher bar in terms of number of users group sort of import important. So I mean, I think there's at CD is a great example of a very important project where there was relatively few contributors, and it was basically from
00:26:46 [W] Neighs but it still was important to have it. So it's not like it's a hard and fast rule, but it but I think that the, you know, if you talk about fast path or easiest way to do it build up a bunch of people who want to collaborate on something and it's pretty much becomes
00:26:51 [W] Add a people interested and it fits the cloud native ecosystem. And if I could add one more thing. I just wanted to kind of highlight that the sandbox process of getting into the sandbox has changed over the last year.
00:27:01 [W] Earlier, we kind of had this tension between you know, the projects that we let into the cncf had to meet a high bar in terms of adoption and extensibility and security and stability and all of these things.
00:27:12 [W] But at the same time we want to be a home for like Liz said Innovation and collaboration for new projects for to provide kind of a neutral home for multiple companies and
00:27:27 [W] Come together and be able to try new things and I think the old process was a little bit at odds with that.
00:27:33 [W] So the new Sandbox project the new Sandbox process has really allowed for kind of more more projects to get in and like like Chris mentioned.
00:27:46 [W] I think we got 35 projects in this year.
00:27:51 [W] Definitely, so I guess to kind of summarize that is you know, I don't think it's a know if you wanted to try to submit a project.
00:27:58 [W] That was only one person.
00:27:59 [W] You'll get feedback eventually from the TOC.
00:28:01 [W] So but I think in general the you know discussion we had each kind of project as looked at individually on its merits other questions.
00:28:11 [W] So, you know, I've been you know meeting with you know Telco as fortunately or unfortunately, you know heavily for the last couple of months and it's kind of a lot of discussion around you know,
00:28:20 [W] Corinna D's on the edge kubenetes.
00:28:23 [W] Do you know you know since smaller form factors, you know, you know, what are people's thoughts on the TOC, you know, are we going to see you know, something like what happened with the Linux kernel where over time just lots of different people stretching and interesting directions and moving into
00:28:38 [W] You know heavily for the last couple of months and it's kind of a lot of discussion around, you know, communities on the edge kubenetes, you know, you know smaller form factors, you know, you know, what are people's thoughts on the TOC, you know, are we going to see, you know
00:29:08 [W] Someone you know, what role you think kubernative will have you know on the edge we have multiple.
00:29:14 [W] Let's call them tiny distros k3s now and k0 S.
00:29:18 [W] I saw this this this week things like Cubed, I think Microsoft announced in the called a query recently. There's a bunch of these things popping up all over does anyone kind of have thoughts on the role that Community is then we'll play in The Edge and like what eventually the
00:29:33 [W] Help fulfill kubernative include knative on the edge.
00:29:38 [W] I would like to take.
00:29:39 [W] Oh, sorry.
00:29:40 [W] Okay, let's get Justin that Elena and then anyone else can raise your hand.
00:29:45 [W] Yeah.
00:29:46 [W] I'm not when I talk to people they all definitely want it.
00:29:50 [W] like there's huge demand for keeping us on the edge and I think that therefore it's you know, it's inevitable that we will get lots of that. What I like is that we've we've let in a bunch of quite experimental
00:30:03 [W] it'll projects that are doing communities on the edge in really different ways.
00:30:06 [W] And I think there's because there's a lot to learn because I think I think we don't know what the architecture of it's going to look like and I think it's great to experiment with these lots of different ways of doing it and I'm I'm really looking forward to you know that shaking out
00:30:21 [W] Actually get it into production because it's mostly experiments at the moment and mostly little project and getting to know that and exploring it with customers.
00:30:28 [W] I think over the next year. We should get a really good idea of the things that work and don't work.
00:30:35 [W] Lina yeah from the end user perspective speaking all users are looking for they are looking for a universal way of delivering their applications to two different locations. Whether it's a lot from you and your organization or something something on the edge
00:30:51 [W] Our itís on the edge really strikes as for implementation.
00:30:49 [W] So we have kubeedge open your heart. We have k3s some challenges this year some challenges and some are unique to the project. So I'm just curious to to look at them and just, you know, see
00:31:05 [W] For the shared challenges what what can be what can be improved and for the new ones like for every new project is always important to look and see like what difference did from other water edge prices are already part of cncf. What unique it brings to the apis system.
00:31:16 [W] Anyone else have an error?
00:31:17 [W] Yeah, if I could if I could say something this is a this is one of the I think this was the first this is the first prediction that in the in the in the you know, what's going to happen in 20 21, I think all of us
00:31:32 [W] Host tremendous potential I wouldn't I'd love personally. I love to see a lot more.
00:31:38 [W] It's very experimental and love to see a lot more projects.
00:31:42 [W] I'd be you know as Toc with always ask you what makes you different and what's unique. But but a lot of these things you don't really know until until you start working on it and engage the users engage the
00:31:58 [W] With the encourage folks to come up with with new distros on your projects because this they're just so many ways to do the same thing and it's just a standard.
00:32:04 [W] is just not there yet.
00:32:09 [W] Austin we have a few minutes left.
00:32:12 [W] I kind of want to be the last question for us, you know, most of our end users but you know other other books in the TOC can answer this, you know, I've been thinking a lot of different end-users company recently.
00:32:22 [W] I helped bring an organization called the finops foundation the Linux Foundation, which is mostly dedicated to you know, wrangling Cloud financial management for some of us, you know who may work at a cloud provider you kind of have this notion of cloud privileges like everything's a free pretty much but you know
00:32:37 [W] You know part of Phi or you know, smaller company this stuff could get fairly, you know, expensive and how you know quickly and the tools to kind of manage filter predicting the cost of spending a service just seems not to be there it is anyone have any thoughts of you know how this
00:32:50 [W] Could be done here is we actually don't have any projects at all in cncf are about this problem. But I already gave or Apple's a fairly well-off companies.
00:32:55 [W] So maybe cost is less of a concern there. But you know, I don't know if this is a concern it is always a concern I think no matter how big is your gum. Well, yeah capacity planning is definitely is definitely challenging
00:33:10 [W] To be honest, I don't know like what a what are the tools out there that can solve everything like we are building something internally, but I would be happy to see more tools evolved into the space because it's shared problem. Right? No matter how big your company is.
00:33:22 [W] You need to spend your money wise and do that.
00:33:26 [W] I do the plan we carefully so yeah, I agree. That's I think that's a that's a good point.
00:33:35 [W] Yeah, one small thing. I would add.
00:33:37 [W] Oh, yeah.
00:33:38 [W] Sorry. Go ahead.
00:33:39 [W] Go ahead.
00:33:39 [W] Go ahead.
00:33:39 [W] Go ahead.
00:33:39 [W] Go ahead.
00:33:39 [W] Go ahead.
00:33:40 [W] Go ahead. I was going to say quickly that from my experience.
00:33:43 [W] One of the biggest problems that people face in this space is not only the tooling but actually tagging people's tagging people's resources to figure out how to do cost attribution, you know, and there's a couple of companies that are in this space right now
00:33:58 [W] what I'm actually hopeful of is that we can develop a shared standards something something like cloudevents but actually related to cost attribution and I think that having that type of API will make it much easier to have tooling across
00:34:12 [W] At ease and and other Cloud providers that can help us figure out, you know, first how to tag everyone's resources because without having the resources tag, it's virtually impossible to make any progress here and then once that's in place and I'm hopeful that can be an open standard.
00:34:20 [W] I think there can be companies and there can be tooling on top that can help people actually with with cost cutting.
00:34:22 [W] Yeah, I think it's a bit of a perverse incentive because like the cloud provider is made, you know, you know quote not care about the problem. Give it right.
00:34:30 [W] Yeah.
00:34:31 [W] This is a this is a complex topic and not one that I really want to be recorded about but happy to talk with anyone about this at any time.
00:34:39 [W] I think that Dave had something to say here. Let's wrap it up as kind of the last thought and comment before we close the panel.
00:34:46 [W] on sure I guess the biggest thing I'll say is something that matches ended with that like there's only so much I can say recorded but I'm totally happy to talk to anyone about this and we'll just like Elena said Spotify has built a bunch of internal tools for things like this whether it's predicting or even just understanding
00:35:02 [W] Labeling or cost attribution all of that stuff.
00:35:04 [W] We've tried to open source some pieces of that but I would love to turn as much of that as possible into an open standard like Matt was saying and like I said of each company building their own form of that does 10% of the job poorly.
00:35:16 [W] Let us come together and build something that does much more of it better.
00:35:21 [W] Awesome.
00:35:22 [W] Yeah. Definitely. I think you know that could be an exciting area that people have projects in that space. Please contribute then we'd love to kind of hear from you.
00:35:32 [W] So with that, you know, wrapping up our 30 minutes or so horrible to thank all of our panelists, you know, you know folks are definitely you know busy, but everyone is very approachable. So feel free to you know, jump it on Toc meetings.
00:35:44 [W] We nearly have you know, you know 72 sometimes even a hundred people on these things. So please jump on them and then submit any project you have workloads.
00:35:51 [W] We're happy to help you.
00:35:52 [W] So thank you everyone for taking the time, you know cons in wild and please, you know, follow us on slack Twitter and whatever communication meeting first.
00:36:02 [W] So, thank you all.
