Kubernetes SIG Architecture Intro and Update: LBUR-1453 - events@cncf.io - Tuesday, August 18, 2020 6:59 AM - 88 minutes

Participant: wordly [W] English (US)

Transcription for wordly [W]

00:00:40 [W] Hi, good morning.
00:00:44 [W] Good afternoon.
00:00:44 [W] Good evening.
00:00:48 [W] This is downtown. Machinima's. My nickname is dims.
00:00:50 [W] I work for VMware and I would like to welcome you all to the cigar collector intro and update. I would like to invite director introduce himself. Hi, Derek.
00:01:01 [W] Hayden's I am their car.
00:01:07 [W] I work at red hat and I'm excited to talk to you about what we do and say architecture and invite everyone to help participate in grow the project with us.
00:01:15 [W] Before we go too deep into what Sig architecture itself doesn't take a step back and look at what the goals of the kubernative project itself. Are we are a container orchestration platform and behind
00:01:44 [W] Use case.
00:01:46 [W] We have some goals on why do you ensure that what we build is portable no matter where you consume communities that it works as you'd expect that the function we meet is general purpose or broad enough to meet a wide array of use cases,
00:02:01 [W] Not so specific to necessarily reject valid users at the platform to find Value.
00:02:14 [W] And so we kind of work to meet users partway on their journey and it might mean that some things are in the core of kubenetes and then other use cases are better served outside the project and so this is a balanced intention that all maintainers in the project are constantly working through
00:02:25 [W] Flexible there's a lot of interest in using kubenetes and a wide variety of these cases.
00:02:41 [W] And so it's important that the project and the apis and Concepts we present enable that flexibility of use and where the core project itself is unable to deliver
00:02:46 [W] The function that users may desire.
00:02:54 [W] We've love to work with are contributing user Community to figure out points of future extension in general everything we do in kubernative given the scale of the project aspires to be automatable.
00:03:02 [W] So you'll hear about some of the work we do in this particular Sig to try to improve our ability to scale the project and the contributions to it and then finally kubernative is definitely not like a stagnant project.
00:03:16 [W] It's a in my opinion pretty cutting-edge advancing the state of the art of what you can do to manage software at scale.
00:03:26 [W] And so we want to always keep that that that goal in front of us to ensure that we are moving forward meaning users present and future needs.
00:03:36 [W] Our communities project goals are largely reinforced by the Community Values that we've been practicing for the last six or so years on also making
00:03:51 [W] Community successful and some of these goals are both would say art. You can't overstate how important they are to the success of the project both technically and on a human level
00:04:06 [W] One of our most important goals is distribution is better than centralization.
00:04:18 [W] So one of the some of the things you'll hear about in our role within Sig architecture is how we provide sufficient guidance and oversight across the project on best practices without necessarily acting as a as a blockade
00:04:26 [W] To progress in the various sub aspects of the project in addition a long standing committee value in the project is to ensure that the community is more important than any single product or company's goals.
00:04:41 [W] So what we do within Sig architecture is often is trying to to reinforce guidelines and practices to to ensure that the community is meeting that need.
00:04:50 [W] As we talked about earlier automation over process is important.
00:04:58 [W] We work with a volunteer army of contributors around the world who we always appreciate their their time and energy in the project and given what can happen with contributors coming and going over the life of a project.
00:05:08 [W] It's often important that we can codify their expertise at that point in time and in automate as many practices as possible so we can continue to scale and meet the needs of our users and contributors.
00:05:20 [W] Well kubenetes is further along in its maturity curve than it was say a few years ago when the project was just starting we continue to try to be an inclusive community.
00:05:33 [W] We invite users and contributors to give their feedback on what we should do.
00:05:37 [W] What we should do better what we're not yet doing to meet our needs I think as we talk about the role of Sig architecture and areas for folks to help contribute. Hopefully you'll
00:05:48 [W] Stems and myself are friendly individuals who look forward to working with everyone and bring their feedback and helping the overall project be better.
00:06:02 [W] And so basically never hesitate to to make your voice heard.
00:06:08 [W] And then finally, the reason your voices are so important is it's important that the project doesn't stagnate right?
00:06:09 [W] We want to always ensure that we are evolving that we're meeting future means that we might not have anticipated and in general. We always try to steer our guiding principles towards
00:06:21 [W] Irving rather than just kind of stagnating on a status quo.
00:06:23 [W] So those Community Values are basically the backdrop by which the communities project operates. And so for those who might not understand as much about how the kubernative project functions
00:06:38 [W] We're basically a set of what we call special interest groups that all kind of specialize within particular problem demands that the kubernative project tackles and each of those individual
00:06:54 [W] I can go between a horizontal and vertical right? So you might have people who are really deep and wanted to know how containers and the Linux kernel and isolation and security stuff work.
00:07:08 [W] And so you might find at home or interest in working with in the node special interest group or you might be particularly interested in thinking about scheduling problems and how we can more effectively like bendpak workloads on clusters.
00:07:22 [W] And so the scheduling Sig would be a similar.
00:07:24 [W] Vertical segment, but we'll a lot of people when they interact with kubernetes are interacting with with an API, right a source of Truth.
00:07:33 [W] And so we have some more horizontal cigs that kind of build that foundational Machinery things like API Machinery authentication the end user tools you use the CLI.
00:07:46 [W] So there's a lot of points of Engagement that one can have that are very specific to demands both vertically and horizontally and so when we think about Sig architecture,
00:07:56 [W] We think about what we can do to provide guidance and oversight. So each one of these horizontal and vertical interest groups don't have to continue to re-litigate or think through the same challenges or
00:08:09 [W] those challenges differently when expertise can be shared across the project and So within the architecture Sig we look to codify and document the principles and conventions that we follow both in past and future decisions to basically
00:08:24 [W] Try to scale out best practices across the project so that I'll turn it over to dims to talk about a little bit on how we do that.
00:08:32 [W] Next slide please.
00:08:38 [W] Okay, so talking about a cigar protector itself, you know, we looked at how kubernative project project is organized, but we do have some organization within the cigar texture itself and
00:08:54 [W] Within the cigar texture itself, and we try to like figure out how we could do our day-to-day work and what do we need to concentrate on and things like that?
00:09:07 [W] So on the left-hand side we are talking about like how do we maintain and evolve the design principles, right?
00:09:19 [W] And but on the other side, we also have to figure out how do we actually apply this on an ongoing basis with the incoming issues and PRC and stuff like that. So what we end up doing is we have a
00:09:24 [W] Bunch of people working on some aspects of a Seka texture, for example, the conformance definition code organization and API governance and stuff like and things like that.
00:09:37 [W] So what we end up doing is we divide up.
00:09:40 [W] The Sig architecture into multiple sub projects and that's how we do our usual day-to-day work next slide, please.
00:09:49 [W] So what is in scope? We the way it works is you know, kubernative is under cncf. The steering committee is in charge of kubenetes overall, but then cigar picture
00:10:04 [W] The second protector into multiple sub projects and that's how we do our usual day-to-day work next slide, please.
00:10:06 [W] So what is in scope? We the way it works is you know, kubernative is under cncf.
00:10:07 [W] The steering committee is in charge of kubenetes overall, but then cigar picture is in charge of the scope of the project itself the overall so steering delegates to secure architecture for that.
00:10:14 [W] we are in charge of the conformance tests ABA conventions design principles.
00:10:19 [W] The enhancement process deprecation policy, you know, the whole gamut of things that keeps all the six together in line and proceeding in a forward Direction next slide, please and how do we do
00:10:35 [W] I might of things that keeps all the six together in line and proceeding in a forward Direction next slide, please and how do we do this?
00:10:39 [W] We we have a bunch of cross cutting processes that we tend to set up for example, the conformance subgroup ends up doing test reviews and then managing expectations around what tests
00:10:51 [W] Get into conformance and is is our the suite of tests enough?
00:10:59 [W] How do we make sure that we increase our test coverage for conformance and you know things like that, for example yesterday we were talking about like how do we have conformance profiles where we look at different aspects of conformance?
00:11:12 [W] you know things like that, for example yesterday we were talking about like how do we have conformance profiles where we look at different aspects of conformance for example something that could be highly secure but not available
00:11:19 [W] For example something that could be highly secure but not available across all the providers is one example of that if we also have an APA review process.
00:11:27 [W] we rely on APA review to help us a lot with backwards compatibility and things like that as well as forward progress, like simple things like okay, it does the field have to be
00:11:39 [W] As well as forward progress like simple things like okay, it does the field have to be has to support like multiple things like IP addresses, right?
00:11:44 [W] It doesn't need to be a single field.
00:11:49 [W] Does it need to be multiple Fields like and we in what would be useful going forward and things like that?
00:11:59 [W] So APA review we've done we have had a lot of experience over time to evolve apis.
00:12:01 [W] So the group run by Jordan helps figure out how to do a peer reviews and what to look for and we try to write down all the things that we know as well so similar similarly, we have a sub project that looks at.
00:12:16 [W] Looks at enhancements and how do you introduce a new feature?
00:12:23 [W] What do you need to look for and we have like a template which captures a most of the things that we have to you know, ask so people who are just joining the project won't have to like turn to
00:12:36 [W] People and each one of them has a different expectation of what needs to go into the enhancement, you know proposal itself. So we have processes around that most importantly we are processor around deprecation policy as well.
00:12:52 [W] So people can expect when things get separated and how things get removed and next slide, please.
00:13:00 [W] So what are the kinds of issues are there?
00:13:08 [W] We it's mostly about like there are so many resources that we haven't given it as and not different people right different pieces of code.
00:13:22 [W] So how do we make sure that the behavior is the same and things and things like that and there are always pitfalls in the process and cigar.
00:13:31 [W] Sure, helps, you know smoothing out our paper over things and also any anything that where there is a conflict between people from different things.
00:13:47 [W] We are not meant to be like last coat, you know Supreme Court or something like that we more mostly think about how do we make sure what are the design principles that are involved here?
00:14:02 [W] L'm is what we talked about in cigar architecture and V. We turn around and set those design principles and then those design principles help the cigs take their decision.
00:14:21 [W] It's the objective is not for sagarika textured to make a call. The objective of this architecture is to actually help the six make come to a decision point so
00:14:35 [W] If you if you are in doubt, if you are in a saying you're working on something, what do you do?
00:14:43 [W] So you just start a mailing list read start writing a proposal with details and then come to us for guidance if needed next slide, please.
00:14:53 [W] So I talked a little bit of each of the sub projects, but let's just go through the official list.
00:15:03 [W] So we have that architecture and API they are responsible for the design principles architectures extension patterns.
00:15:11 [W] We have this is run by Jordan.
00:15:12 [W] We have code organization which talks about repository structure branching when during dependency management go modules stuff like that, which is coredns.
00:15:22 [W] Automation that's run by me.
00:15:26 [W] The other one is conformance definition where we are talking about.
00:15:32 [W] From an end user point of view is run by cncf.
00:15:44 [W] So we work with the cncf folks who actually run the trademark program as well in within this subgroup. So this sub-project is on our side.
00:15:56 [W] It's called conformance definition and we review approve changes to the test suite and that test Suite is in turn used by the trademark program to four people.
00:16:06 [W] for the different providers to
00:16:08 [W] Run against their own instances of kubernative and then do a self-certification at that point.
00:16:18 [W] So enhancements is a new sub group.
00:16:21 [W] We used to have a sick called Sig p.m.
00:16:24 [W] That was in charge of various things and we ended up folding just the enhancements portion into a Sig architecture.
00:16:36 [W] We are also down this path of
00:16:38 [W] ow, what are the things that we need to think about when a feature needs to when we call a feature to be feature production ready?
00:16:53 [W] What are the things to look for there? And we try to insert questions into the enhancement process to get people to think about this.
00:17:03 [W] Port how do we make sure that you know, we don't break existing stuff.
00:17:14 [W] So a bunch of things go into the production rate Readiness review itself. Let me hand over at this point to direct Direct.
00:17:21 [W] Miss them so them Spire it a pretty good high level overview of each of the sub projects that are operated out of Sig architecture. So
00:17:33 [W] there are a lot of ways you can engage with the Sig so we have a regular overarching Sig architecture meeting where we can talk about updates in any of these individuals sub tasks activities that are happening or we have some dedicated forms that people can join to
00:17:49 [W] Topics will talk about here and that's typically what we talked to as sub-projects.
00:18:00 [W] And so you can focus where you choose to dive in and offer your time to the community or you can choose to engage with the Sig at a broader overview section to
00:18:08 [W] Working so let's talk a little about API review most users to interact with kubenetes.
00:18:16 [W] Interact with the API directly, right? You are creating pods. You're creating persistent volumes.
00:18:25 [W] you're interacting with nodes communities itself is a system of distributed components interacting around a centralized API.
00:18:37 [W] And so it's really important is when we talked about earlier all the various cigs who might be looking at things like scheduling or node or storage or networking. It's important that as an end-user nobody cares.
00:18:45 [W] About which individual sub group created that part of the project when they're consuming the project.
00:18:54 [W] It's important that there's a consistent design sensibilities and taste that's applied so that the user experience for how the users consume the project makes sense no matter where the work was
00:19:07 [W] This was a process that was actually much easier early in the kubernative life cycle when the project was much fewer API types, and we were able to lean on a lot of the deep expertise of some of our
00:19:23 [W] Lean on a lot of the deep expertise of some of our earliest contributors. And while those earliest contributors are still largely with the project today and trying to work hard to scale their time and expertise to help others
00:19:34 [W] The APA review sub-project is to provide a formalized mechanism for new reviewers to both understand how changes can get made to the API safely.
00:19:49 [W] What conventions all API changes what's follow?
00:19:52 [W] no matter where they are in the project and kind of make sure that we have like a common standard of practice for how API changes are evaluated broadly, which is often extremely important and knowing how to evaluate something.
00:20:05 [W] Thing even where reviewers may not have specific understanding of like the detailed section of that API.
00:20:14 [W] It's amazing how much the project depends on highly qualified API reviewers to keep us as successful as possible and if individuals have an eye for detail and
00:20:27 [W] experience that want to help guide the future of communities API structures strongly encourage everyone to join the sub-project and to learn and hopefully offer your expertise for future contributors
00:20:43 [W] Coredns is coredns pi is largely.
00:20:49 [W] I don't want to say finish but as as matured, there's obviously use cases.
00:20:52 [W] We've yet to satisfy within that core aspect of the API a lot of the API review guidance and conventions that we follow in the project are focused on those apis that come out of
00:21:06 [W] things that might be sending around pot or node or volume or those various resources, but the goal is that we can scale that expertise to provide guidance for third-party extenders to kubernative
00:21:22 [W] General practices and guidelines and so if you're looking to extend kubernative but want to extend it in a way that appears natural to users who understand the core we strive in that sub project to help facilitate that
00:21:37 [W] Code organization Tim's talked about this a little bit earlier, but this is actually a tricky tricky area as the project has matured. So kubernative is written
00:21:55 [W] Aang has its unique approaches to managing dependencies and all code that is shipped in a kubernative release is not necessarily sourced originally from a kubenetes repo right we lean on
00:22:12 [W] The shoulders of others in open source who have provided libraries and utilities that we want to use to basically make kubernative what it is today.
00:22:27 [W] So things like run C or containerd E your container runtimes or a number of light C advisor a number of libraries that kubernative
00:22:38 [W] Vendor into the code structure has definitely grown over time and in the early phases of the project.
00:22:54 [W] I don't want to say that what we were fast and loose with it necessarily, but we were less less aware of the problems. We were going to run into both in how we consume dependencies and how others consume the project so when you
00:23:05 [W] Organization sub-project. You kind of look at the problem from both dimensions, right?
00:23:12 [W] How do we make it that when kubernative wants to take advantage of a new capability one of the issues we've been talking about lately is just how to roll out cgroup C2 maybe in and kubernative support and that might require changes in
00:23:25 [W] Just how to roll out cgroup C2 maybe in and kubernative support and that might require changes in sea advisor in run see and containerd E and cryo excetera and you need to eventually get the cubelet to vendor all those
00:23:33 [W] Q but to vendor all those dependencies appropriate we're necessarily and not cause conflicts. And so there's this General issue of transitive dependency management.
00:23:42 [W] That is that is tough.
00:23:47 [W] And so this could mean oftentimes when you want to make a new feature enhancement to kubenetes you run into obstacles on on kind of getting all the necessary prerequisite work done in the sub communities outside of
00:23:57 [W] We depend on and often times.
00:24:09 [W] We are aspiring now in the community project to make sure that we depend on fixed release versions of these external dependencies so that we can very easily understand when cdes need to be fixed and that type of thing
00:24:17 [W] We're right now, but it is a goal.
00:24:27 [W] And so it's an interesting process to work through to figure out how the kubernative project can continue to scale. Its code base while working on dependencies. Another major area around dependency management is around cloudevents gration. So a lot of the stuff
00:24:36 [W] I grow organically and try to take on new infrastructure provider support both in say storage and general infrastructure integration. If you want to integrate with Amazon or Google or VMware or any of the various infrastructure providers that
00:24:51 [W] Often those libraries bring in additional back-end dependencies that need to be kept up to date with the project.
00:25:05 [W] And so sometimes we look at dependency management from a perspective of how do we keep measuring these things safely?
00:25:10 [W] And then other times we look at dependency Management on how can we put the right carrots and sticks in the project to make it that this work can be done outside of the core kubernative kubernative repo so that you can minimize the amount of dependencies and the sizes of
00:25:20 [W] A con to meet current and he's in a particular operating environment.
00:25:32 [W] So that's like how do we as a as a coding Community organize our dependencies to to produce an output, but then there's an inverse situation which is many users now are depending on
00:25:41 [W] I are various aspects of the Machinery that we've written to help build their own applications.
00:25:48 [W] And so we have this General tension on we don't want people to have to vendor all of kubernative kubenetes, which is a significant amount of code. In order to just say use the kubernative API in their project.
00:26:01 [W] So we have a process that we go through to ask. How do we choose which aspects of code we make available for others to depend on and how do we make them available in a small enough?
00:26:11 [W] Sighs that the projects that ultimate look to build and scale upon kubernative itself don't have to bring in all of our our materials and so things like client go the kubernative API
00:26:26 [W] the cri-o
00:26:55 [W] conformance tests and promotion.
00:27:03 [W] This is kind of a the necessary follow-up to a Pi review, right which is like during the API review process.
00:27:11 [W] It's important that we look at it and say will this work everywhere as expected. But in order to really verify that that is the case you need to follow through and ensuring that things are to tested
00:27:22 [W] So we have a growing set of conformance tests within the communities project that get careful review to figure out if they should be labeled conformance or not.
00:27:38 [W] So of the hundreds and hundreds of what we call end-to-end tests that test various use cases across components in the system. For example, does quota enforce the amount of CPU access you need
00:27:51 [W] Appropriately or does your config Maps actually bind in your pods where you expect a subset of those tests that test overall and and function get elevated into what we call a conformance sweet
00:28:06 [W] And that conformance sweet to get a test integrated at that level requires like a higher bar of review for a variety of reasons one but the original test as it was written
00:28:21 [W] Not have been written in a way that's obvious to readers of that test what it's really testing, right?
00:28:30 [W] So it takes some oversight to say was this test written of a sufficient quality to understand if it should be a barrier to usage of the kubenetes trademark in every operating environment, right?
00:28:43 [W] So ensuring that the test isn't flaky ensuring that the actual function that the test test is scoped and prescriptive all these challenges and issues are what the conformance tests and
00:28:51 [W] ocean sub-project focus on challenging themselves to help communities always get better and better then as features evolve and kubernative.
00:29:05 [W] They go through like a alpha beta stable GI status and we have a general goal of trying to provide our ties are conformance testing on things that have already graduated
00:29:17 [W] To what we call stable or GA and then putting new barriers in place to ensure that for any new capabilities that come in we are set up in the future to better conformance test those within the sub-project.
00:29:32 [W] There's some really useful too long that's been developed to kind of let you see what has or has not been covered under conformance.
00:29:40 [W] So there's an API Snoop tool that allows you to look within a particular API level the core if it's stable beta Alpha Etc.
00:29:49 [W] What endpoints in that API are actually tested under conformance so that if you take your application and you wrote it to run on your Raspberry Pi in your home office, and you wanted to transfer that
00:30:02 [W] Case on to go run with a particular distribution or managed service conformance is intended to ensure you that that application would work consistently in both environments.
00:30:17 [W] And so it's ever evolving process to get more apis covered under the conformance Sweet and the process by which to get new conformance test is pretty well documented where we always could use help is providing that
00:30:29 [W] You and follow through on the work.
00:30:33 [W] Enhancements. This is an interesting thing to talk to you because at this point now kubernative has grown so big there's a lot of specialization and
00:30:46 [W] a lot of users who first engage with the project will write some code and then say this is a great idea and then paying maintainers to say.
00:30:58 [W] Hey, can you just can you merge this and so when we talk about the other aspects of the project around API review and overall evaluation on design conventions enhancements kind of serve two purposes one, like how do we
00:31:12 [W] Identify units of change that are large enough that a either a mayadata packed the end user API may impact how and when we choose to deprecate or take on new capabilities or met and packed more than one group.
00:31:28 [W] For example, like a change to the Pod definition might be required in order to facilitate a use case desired in storage.
00:31:40 [W] So the enhancement process is meant to take leaders from the various special interest groups and a provide a document or a design for us to rally on before executing on the work.
00:31:51 [W] So within the enhancement sub-project, we tried to build the standardized template that the project follows.
00:31:59 [W] To make that process smooth and to ensure that things are seen to completion not just getting it to an alpha state, but getting it all the way through GA.
00:32:11 [W] This is an Ever evolving process not all the work that was previously done kubernative has a corresponding enhancement, but there is a goal as we go forward to make sure that every significant unit of change has a corresponding
00:32:22 [W] I spent so as a community.
00:32:25 [W] We have a record to follow and as end users you can work through and think why were the decisions made as they were?
00:32:32 [W] So if you've contributed to criminalize in the past or look to contribute in the future and you want to help make this smoother, please help us join the sub-project to improve our enhancement process.
00:32:45 [W] The production Readiness reviews is kind of an evolution of that enhancement process. So
00:32:52 [W] examples that we were hearing back from cluster operators were often times. Some features may have been coming out that we didn't really understand how to handle at scale what things we want recommended administrators to say monitor.
00:33:09 [W] Or things that users who are either consuming a capability or providing a capability should should keep their eye on in order to properly secure that
00:33:24 [W] Teacher probably roll it out across the cluster versions or properly be able to identify if they were problems.
00:33:35 [W] And so this is kind of an evolution of our kept pressing s where the cap was originally focused on.
00:33:41 [W] What is the change you want to make and over what set of releases will this change you made and as the changes being developed what were the Milestones are looking to meet in each scenario and the production Readiness review is more like
00:33:54 [W] Asking yourself.
00:33:56 [W] Do I have the right metrics around this feature capability?
00:34:04 [W] So even if it's being developed and let's say the scheduling Sig our instrumentation sake can provide guidance on how to properly monitor that as an example, right in addition. Like
00:34:15 [W] There's a difference between the user documentation on the admin documentation. If you are rolling out capability, for example, like seccomp write something that might be very important to get properly
00:34:30 [W] Handled in order to provide the overall security posture you're looking for as an end user you might think about okay.
00:34:46 [W] I want to restrict the set of syscalls that my pod can use but as an as a cluster provider, it's important that that is actually being rolled out as you expect.
00:34:55 [W] So there's a unique Dimension between providing guidance on what security things Cluster operators might need to understand and what monitoring
00:35:00 [W] oh things developers need to put around the code in order to show that the features actually successful.
00:35:16 [W] So if you have experience running kubernative in production, and you think there's things we could be doing better to make features of higher stability when they come out.
00:35:21 [W] We'd love to hear your feedback in that subject.
00:35:23 [W] And with that I will hand it back to them's.
00:35:27 [W] - let's keep this light.
00:35:32 [W] This was an old deck.
00:35:35 [W] Okay, so one important thing.
00:35:37 [W] Maybe I'll bring you back a director as well.
00:35:41 [W] So one fun thing that we always been talked about is kubenetes is a platform for building platforms. What does this really mean Direct?
00:35:50 [W] As Adams, you know criminals has a job API and my company or my customer or my user.
00:36:03 [W] They just got this really important use case, right and kubenetes kind of solves it but doesn't solve it all the way and so like I'm really interested in, you know, building a new type of variant on job.
00:36:13 [W] I think it's going to be widely useful, but I just want to get it in the core right now and provide value to my users and Company like can I do that?
00:36:22 [W] Like what should I do here?
00:36:24 [W] Absolutely.
00:36:28 [W] So this is a question. We get all the time direct. Thank you for asking that question.
00:36:38 [W] So the way we approach this is we first try to our first instinct is not to actually write new code and include it in kubenetes core itself. What we try to do is we
00:36:42 [W] try to give a place where you can do this experimentation where you can prove out the concepts and we think about like the other extension points where we can actually try to help you do this yourself and get a
00:36:57 [W] body of people to adopt your work this been so many different features that we ended up doing outside and then bringing it into Cuban it as and there is also things that we have talked about where
00:37:12 [W] I things that are in kubernative sweet right move out to external projects as well.
00:37:18 [W] So let's explore a little bit of the extension points.
00:37:23 [W] Do you want to go to the next slide, please?
00:37:23 [W] Yep.
00:37:28 [W] So I think we skipped one. We can go back one.
00:37:34 [W] Okay. So what we try to think about is how do we avoid bottlenecks?
00:37:46 [W] For example, if you have to make a call to an external system then how do we make sure that give it its itself doesn't come to a halt right?
00:37:53 [W] How do we increase the not supported use cases? How do we let people rapidly I trade and not have to wait for release of Cuban it as how do we make sure that we allow people to experiment?
00:38:05 [W] It captured backs best practices and provide and what we end up doing in the end as provide guardrails or integration.
00:38:14 [W] What does this mean these?
00:38:16 [W] This is all abstract stuff.
00:38:20 [W] So let's go to the next slide and we look at a few examples.
00:38:31 [W] say if it's okay. There's like if I think about the example, I had my client my customer my user. They need this capability in the next three to six months, right? Like what can I do here right like
00:38:36 [W] Are you saying basically I should be doing this work out of tree and proving it myself before trying to take on it twelve to fifteen month process to get it into kubenetes.
00:38:46 [W] That's definitely one option.
00:38:52 [W] What we would try to do is see if there is an excellent extension part already if there is an extension Point does it are you able to do the work that you need to do using the extension points and
00:39:01 [W] Have a lot of examples of the extension points. So if you want to take the job one, right so it can can we use a ci/cd to implement or at least?
00:39:16 [W] Design, the variant of the job that you're talking about direct and then are there enough extensions elsewhere to be able to use the thing that you're talking about?
00:39:29 [W] Can you write a new controller do actually need this? Multiple variations right? Can do you need to do API aggregation or do you need to do ci/cd?
00:39:39 [W] So we have a few choices there as well.
00:39:45 [W] well. So it's a little bit turn this around to you that I can see which one
00:39:46 [W] Yes, have you actually tried outside of Cuba net has made project here.
00:39:55 [W] Yeah, so, you know like my job API its Mission critical it's what's paying people's paychecks, you know, so like my company is my users are really expecting that I've strong validation on that code, right?
00:40:07 [W] So like I've tried a third party resources earlier in the life of communities. Now I hear about these custom resource definitions that looks like the right thing.
00:40:17 [W] I think with admission control extension of webhooks. I can provide validation on my schema.
00:40:27 [W] We talked a little bit about the client go and the apis I can use interact with stuff.
00:40:29 [W] So I think I could probably hack something together.
00:40:32 [W] So at least from what I see here.
00:40:37 [W] I feel like I probably could meet my use case out of the core project and still be successful in the timeline and see if there's value there.
00:40:47 [W] Don't forget the cute cuddly extensions.
00:40:50 [W] that that's like a new thing where you can provide your end users with something tweet which works for your environment or for your new job type. So that's the most definitely
00:41:04 [W] Wracked with this resource.
00:41:14 [W] So being able to have it pretty printed and described and all that looks like that's something I should look in a little more detail. But yeah, it looks like for this particular use case kubernative shouldn't be a blocker for me. I can get value outside of the core project.
00:41:19 [W] Nice.
00:41:21 [W] Glad to hear that day. Thank you.
00:41:22 [W] So, let's go to the next slide, please.
00:41:27 [W] So where are we going? We want to let the ecosystem grow distant the new patterns.
00:41:30 [W] want to build out the conformance. We want to clean up.
00:41:34 [W] ET and make things more reliable.
00:41:40 [W] We also want to make sure that the features that we have that are in alphago to Beta things that are in beta.
00:41:45 [W] I'll go to GA and we are trying to put together a set of you know processes to make sure that we force the features to go ga quickly and you know, we have to
00:42:00 [W] Solidly go behind caps caps caps and make sure that we write things down earlier in the cycle so we can think through a lot of these things and not do a knee-jerk react later the end so next slide, please.
00:42:15 [W] So how how can you participate in all these things? So we have like a main project meeting for sagarika texture? And we also have sub-project meetings.
00:42:26 [W] So come hang out with us.
00:42:30 [W] Just you don't even have to talk. If you come there you you can be a fly on the wall.
00:42:35 [W] That's how all of us started, you know, so come be a fly on the wall.
00:42:45 [W] But listen to all the things that we're talking about and then soon you'll get the hang of it and you will come out of your comfort zone and start talking.
00:42:49 [W] talking to us, you know use all the a synchronous stuff that we do project boards mailing list slack, you know, speak up please, you know, we are welcoming bunch and we just want to see you a
00:43:01 [W] Times and will actually give you stuff to do so don't hesitate to speak up or you know, just take meeting notes at that.
00:43:11 [W] That's usually a big help.
00:43:16 [W] We will walk you through issue triage, peer reviews docks and things like that as well if you have some interest and if you have some time so in to wrap things up next slide, please
00:43:26 [W] So thank you for you know, attending the session and we let's open up the lines for some QA.
00:43:35 [W] Okay.
00:43:39 [W] Thanks.
00:43:46 [W] Hi, everyone.
00:43:47 [W] Hi, Derek.
00:43:50 [W] How you feeling direct good, I got that job
00:44:07 [W] So like to you so I think we are almost out of time since we ran over a little bit.
00:44:21 [W] So many thanks to Theon Brittany for running the session for us and we've got a good set of questions going on in slack. So we'll hang out with you there. So any last words Direct?
00:44:30 [W] now thanks again for those joining and we'll answer any questions and that's like
00:44:38 [W] Hope to see you soon.
00:44:41 [W] Bye.
